Oscar, tell us, I think it will
be very interesting, the story
of Globo, from the perspective of,
well, from when you get the
idea, to how you grow, what
stages you are meeting, stages
in terms of the company growth,
expansion, financing, how you
have been funding that growth.
Well, Globo begins in early
2015, already reaching three,
two and a half years.
I was doing a practice in a very
large company, aeronautics,
which bored me a little, I
started to turn around some
kind of idea, marketplace related
to Uber, which was what was
most fashionable at the
time and was growing more.
So I came up with this idea
of creating a platform
that basically was a platform
that saved you time.
In a big city, then a platform
where you could ask for any type
of message and there would be
a person who, in exchange for
an FII, could do this daily
task.
That is, the first service, because
your service offer is very
wide and also combines different
models.
It was just this button that now says
what it is or anything, I don't know what
it says now.
You were not connected to the
company.
There was not.
You were not a marketplace yet,
you really provided messaging service.
The first Globe was a button that
said ask what you want and
people wrote it like it was a
text message.
And this we sent to an independent
messenger platform and these made
the purchase or delivery
that the user requested.
So with this Globe we
call 1.0 we were like
a year.
That was the least viable product, it
could be.
and yes.
Obviously we had to
fund it, we had to
develop an app.
We made a first round with this
idea, because I pre-apply.
He made a very simple presentation.
What was the vision?
Without much detail, because it is also
a phase where if you go to the investor
with a lot of detail of business
plans you say hearing, you
have no idea what will happen.
So you don't need to give me any details.
But well, the vision was very big,
the opportunity too, and
we managed to capture 100,000€.
With the bis, with the product, with
the presentation.
From Business Angels, the reality is
that it all started because I met
a Business Angel via LinkedIn,
that I got a meeting with him,
I could present him the idea.
He wanted to invest 10,000€, but he started
to introduce me to more people from
the ecosystem and eventually they were
100,000€ to kick off.
Let's start with this application.
We were a year with this first version
of the app.
And the truth is we didn't have
money to invest in marketing, which
was all organic.
We were trying to do a little about
social media.
That's what you do in product development.
And the truth is that we came
out quite a bit in the press because
the product was quite new.
That you can ask for anything in a
text message and that it comes to
you immediately, was pretty chilling.
The problem is that we didn't grow up.
And we were a first year, which
well, that was one of the moments where
we almost palm.
Because we didn't grow up.
It was very difficult to start
investors because the graphics were
not good.
Did you get to capture users?
It cost us a lot.
Did you have no money, too?
It cost us a lot to convert.
People were going to get rid of it
because the concept was so crazy.
But the discharge on request was terrible.
Well, at the end we decided, heh,
we're going to present a new
project to investors.
And what we said was, heh, we're
going to pick up all this we've created
from what you want and we're going
to add a marketplace to it.
I will cut you off, Oscar, forgive me.
Of course, that fact, you said, the
conversion was terrible.
That would be very hopeless at that time.
Because of course, if you can
capture because the message
is powerful, but then people don't
use it, you'll face a huge problem.
And you had identified why they didn't
use it.
Of course, because if you don't
get it fixed, we't be here today.
No, no no.
We identified two things.
One was that since we didn't
have a shop or restaurant
income, our only source of
income was the user.
We had to pay him a lot.
What the user pays for sending, yes.
We had to pay 6 euros
per order.
The other thing is that it raises a
lot of doubts.
This stands as you like, at the end
I always compare it as if you go
to a restaurant and the waitress
says, “Hey, what do you want
to eat?”
We will also talk about this, about the
positioning, about how you position
yourself in the mind of...
of course.
It is difficult to position.
If you ask ten people today, ten
different people what Glovo is,
I ask ten people in my environment
what Glovo is, I have been
recommended Glovo for
different reasons.
Of course, and this is bad.
That's bad, it's harder to position.
and exact.
In the mind of the consumer.
Now imagine, even because you enter
and we try to guide you a little
bit the users, but it is easier
because the message is, we
bring you what you want.
But it is that I have been
recommended Glovo, I have been
recommended people who see a lot
of value in that it is a food delivery
service.
Some people recommend it because they
use it for the recipes.
I have been recommended for
different reasons.
and yes.
And I love Glovo, I am a fan of Glovo,
but I understand that it is a problem
because when your positioning, when
your messages, when you don't
have a clear way to position yourself
in the mind of the consumer, once
he already uses it, the consumer
then also explores and ends
up using the rest, right?
Yes, yes yes yes
But I think that complicates
the marketing strategy.
Yes something.
At least we know that a lot
of users are following the
same path now, if you want
later I tell you.
Well, I wanted to explain a little
how this change from this Glovo 1.0
was and what we presented to
the investor that was, hear, we
will add, in addition to this asks what
you want, we will add a marketplace.
This will solve both things.
One, as the user will start to
see content, will understand
what he asks, prices, photos,
stores.
And on the other hand, as this store
will give us a commission, we will be
able to charge much less to the user.
That is, you've fully pivoted into
the business model.
and yes.
Or you have added a new deal.
and exact.
Did you think of it one day?
Little by little.
When we talk a lot with users they told us this,
sometimes I don't know what to ask, sometimes
they generate me a lot of doubts, it's
that it's very expensive, I don't know what.
That was insights from what I
told you.
Exactly yes, yes yes.
Total of.
Well, we don't pivot, but we add
this marketplace, what we call Glovo
2.0.
And since then it has been unstoppable
growth very beast.
In every city we launch
the model continues to work.
And well, it has changed everything,
not only on the part of growth,
but also on the part of
business model.
We used to lose a lot of money
on demand, now not.
Now we are already beginning to
see the first cities and countries
that are entering profitability at
EBITDA level.
And well, things are going well.
What you said about positioning...
Sorry, we are going through the stages.
The phases.
The Pivots?
Suddenly, how many pips do you do?
year and a half.
A year and a half ago.
and yes.
Very recently.
And suddenly the results start
to see that, boom, things
are shooting, right?
and yes.
So that's when we got...
Just with the change, we got the
first more or less decent investment
of our A-Series.
and yes.
It was 1.5 million.
And so we could start investing
in marketing and we started using
the first online, offline
channels.
We did something on the street, something on the television.
And I would say we weren't the
best at measuring it.
We also had no senior team.
Now is yes.
That is, now since the last round
entered, that a much more professional
investor than Rakuten entered, we already
have the equipment to measure
everything to the penny from
where users come, what they
convert, which channel is
more optimal and so on.
Have you finished more rounds or
not?
We have a series of a...
We closed what was called the
1.5 million Seat Round.
Then we closed the $5 million, which
already entered the first professional
investor, that Seaya, a Madrid
fund.
And now three months ago we closed
the first international
fund that was with Rakuten
and then with a French
fund called Katay.
It was a round of 30 million euros.
And this round already, then, we went
with the pitch today, we have this in
Spain, which is very good.
In Italy, it seems to be the
same.
France and Italy are on the same path.
We now need more funding
to expand internationally.
And that's what we're doing now,
opening up South America and
we're seeing more sites in the world.
Well, really in your case, from
that perspective of the growth
stages is a book case.
It is a case where you validate
the idea, go out with a MVP, start
working, then validate the
capture channels and at
a time what you have to
do is...
You validated that the model makes sense
and what you have to do is accelerate,
step the accelerator, grow around
the world and the more money you have
to do...
When you get to that point, the
more money the better.
Yes, that is, when...
It is very difficult what we
are now mounting, which is the
Department of Expansion.
In the end, the best Expansion Department
is one that can create processes
to open x hundreds or x thousands
of cities without each new
expansion affecting the core
business.
That is, it is almost...
Building teams that are like launchers,
that you are sending to these
cities to train the local teams,
to launch the city and that all
this happens without Spain falling,
without France and Italy falling
and is very complex.
Of course, you need gasoline, which
is, therefore, a round of financing.
But well, it has a very fun
trick in expanding quickly.
Do you know?
We at the Globe the idea is that we move
from bringing three countries to bringing
15 in 12 months, with which everything
changes.
In terms of the management of the
country, who is reporting to...
You have to turn around everything.
Yes, it's a much bigger, more
complex and harder to manage
company.